You might be wondering now,
how do we provide fallbacks for
unsupported features?
Then we can't use the cascade anymore.
We can't just specify
a duplicate declarations and
let the browser use
what it can understand.
Just like we were able to do for
20 years or so.
So, again add supports to the rescue,
we can use that supports.
Here's how we would use add
support to specify LCH colors
only if the browser supports LCH and
fall back to a more typical and
more classic sRGB color for
browsers that don't support LCH.
And that is the huge advantage of
custom properties here as well.
We can just do this once, if we just
use that supports without custom
properties we would have to fork our CSS
in every place that defines a color.
And this is not something we could do with
preprocessor variables either because
preprocessor variables cannot be written
based on what the browser supports.
Because the preprocessor runs before
the break before the CSS even gets to
the browser.
Here is a bit of code that actually
tripped me up a while ago.
We have a font size in 20 pixels
that every browser understands.
And we also have a font size that
uses a clump function to make
sure that our font size is within
this range of 16 to 24 pixels.
And here we have a calculation of let's
say 100% multiplied by a custom property.
So what happens in browsers that don't
support the clump function, you would
expect that since the browser can see
that I'm using the clamp function there.
If it doesn't understand it, it should use
the full back on part at parse value time
like it's at parse value times that it
seems that when using the clamp function,
the clump function is not
actually behind the variable.
However, that's not what happens.
What happens is again that
we get the behavior of
invalid that computed value time.
Because once the browser sees that
I'm using a VAR function in my value,
it just assumes optimistically
that this might end up
being a valid value once
substitution is performed.
Because it can't know what I have,
what I plan to store in this value and
that can change at any point.
So the 20 pixel fallback
will never be used and
I would still have to go the supports
route if I want to provide a fallback.